how-to: add key visualizer document (#2571)
pingcap/docs: key-visualizer-monitoring-tool.md

---
title: Key Visualizer

> suammary: Learn the Key Visualizer feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to monitor traffic using the Key Visualizer tool.
```
typo: summary

category: how-to
---

# Key Visualizer

> Key Visualizer is a feature for analyzing the usage of TiDB and troubleshooting the traffic hotspot. The feature generates a visual report of the metrics of the TiDB cluster over a period of time. With this visual report, you can quickly and intuitively observe the overall cluster hotspot and traffic distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key Visualizer is a tool for analyzing the usage of TiDB and troubleshooting traffic hotspots. The tool generates a visual report of the metrics of the TiDB cluster over a period of time. With this visual report, you can quickly and intuitively observe the overall cluster hotspots and traffic distribution.
```
I prefer using "tool" to describe Key Visualizer, not "feature"? @TomShawn

## Access Key Visualizer

> Key Visualizer is one of the TiDB Dashboard components. It is directly integrated to PD instances and does not require a separate deployment. You can access this TiDB Dashboard component on any PD instance via browsers by using the following address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As one of the offerings of TiDB Dashboard, Key Visualizer is directly integrated into PD instances and does not require a separate deployment. You can access TiDB Dashboard on any PD instance via your browser by using the following address:
```

{{< copyable "" >}}

```
http://PDAddress:PDPort/dashboard
```

> **Note:**
>
> + If multiple PD instances exist, you can use any PD instance address to access TiDB Dashboard.

> > + By default, `PDPort` is `2379`. If you have modified the corresponding PD parameter, use the corresponding modified PD port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> + By default, `PDPort` is `2379`. If you have modified the corresponding PD parameter during deployment, use the modified PD port.
```

> > + You need the `root` account of TiDB to log into TiDB Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> + You need to use the `root` account of TiDB to log into TiDB Dashboard.
```

## Interface demonstration

The following image is a demonstration of the Key Visualizer interface:

![Key Visualizer Interface](/media/dashboard/keyvisualizer/overview.png)

From the interface above, you can see the following objects:

+ A large heatmap that shows changes of the overall traffic over time.

> + The detailed information of heatmap axises.

Reviewer 2: It should be the information of a certain coordinate point, not the coordinate axis.

+ Information of tables, indexes, and so on (on the left side of the heatmap).

## Basic concepts

> This section introduces the basic concepts that relates to Key Visualizer.

Author: ```suggestion
This section introduces the basic concepts that relate to Key Visualizer.
```

### Region

In a TiDB cluster, the stored data is distributed among TiKV instances. Logically, TiKV is a huge and orderly key-value map. The whole key-value space is divided into many segments and each segment consists of a series of adjacent keys. Such segment is called a `Region`.

For detailed introduction of Region, refer to [TiDB Internal (I) - Data Storage](https://pingcap.com/blog/2017-07-11-tidbinternal1/#region).

### Hotspot

> The hotspot issue is typical during the usage of TiDB, where high traffic is concentrated on a small range of data. Because consecutive data ranges are often processed on the same TiKV instance, the TiKV instance on which the hotspot occurs become the performance bottleneck of the whole application. The hotspot issue commonly occurs in the following scenarios:

Author: ```suggestion
The hotspot issue is typical during the usage of TiDB, where high traffic is concentrated on a small range of data. Because consecutive data ranges are often processed on the same TiKV instance, the TiKV instance on which the hotspot occurs becomes the performance bottleneck of the whole application. The hotspot issue commonly occurs in the following scenarios:
```

> The hotspot issue is typical during the usage of TiDB, where high traffic is concentrated on a small range of data. Because consecutive data ranges are often processed on the same TiKV instance, the TiKV instance on which the hotspot occurs becomes the performance bottleneck of the whole application. The hotspot issue commonly occurs in the following scenarios:

Author: ```suggestion
The hotspot issue is typical during the usage of TiDB, where high traffic is concentrated on a small range of data. Because consecutive data ranges are often processed on the same TiKV instance, the TiKV instance on which the hotspot occurs becomes the performance bottleneck of the whole application. The hotspot issue often occurs in the following scenarios:
```

> The hotspot issue is typical during the usage of TiDB, where high traffic is concentrated on a small range of data. Because consecutive data ranges are often processed on the same TiKV instance, the TiKV instance on which the hotspot occurs becomes the performance bottleneck of the whole application. The hotspot issue often occurs in the following scenarios:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use the TiDB database, the hotspot issue is typical, where high traffic is concentrated on a small range of data. Because consecutive data ranges are often processed on the same TiKV instance, the TiKV instance on which the hotspot occurs becomes the performance bottleneck of the whole application. The hotspot issue often occurs in the following scenarios:
```

+ Write adjacent data into a table with the `AUTO_INCREMENT` primary key, which causes a hotspot issue on this table.
+ Write adjacent time data into the time index of a table, which causes a hotspot issue on the table index.

For more details about hotspot, refer to [Highly Concurrent Write Best Practices](/best-practices/high-concurrency-best-practices.md#hotspot-causes)

### Heatmap

> The heatmap is the core part of Key visualizer, which shows the change of a metric over time. The X axis of the heatmap indicates the time. The Y axis of the heatmap indicates the consecutive Regions based on key ranges that cover all schemas and tables of the TiDB cluster. Colder colors in the heatmap indicate lower read and write traffic of Regions in that period of time. Hotter (brighter) colors indicate higher traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The heatmap is the core part of Key Visualizer, which shows the change of a metric over time. The X-axis of the heatmap indicates the time. The Y-axis of the heatmap indicates the consecutive Regions based on key ranges that cover all schemas and tables of the TiDB cluster. 

Colder colors in the heatmap indicate lower read and write traffic of Regions in that period of time. Hotter (brighter) colors indicate higher traffic.
```

---
title: Key Visualizer
suammary: Learn the Key Visualizer feature.
category: how-to

> aliases: ['/docs/dev/how-to/monitor/key-visualizer/']

Author: ```suggestion
```
